Distributed Systems and MiddleWare Technologies, questions 2021-02-22

Memory organization on the Java Virtual Machine

Bully Algorithm. What hypotesis do I need to use it?
    - reliable delivery
    - synchronous system, in order to have an upper bound on response time
    - all nodes know the IDs for the other peers
    
DAG. A total order can be useful, instead of a partial one. Why?
Kahn's algorithm. Why do I need to have an acyclic graph?

Architecture of an RPC system.
What are the issues with values management?
    - Marshalling / Serialization
    - References
    
Synchronization of Physical Clocks. External and internal synchronization.
Berkeley algorithm. A time difference is written in the update message. Why?
Talk about skew and drift.

Erlang: tuples and lists. What are they?
How to write them? How do they differ? How can they be modified?
List comprehension: what is? Give an example.

Garbage collection in a distributed system.
ROT - Reference Table, maps local references with remote ones.
dirty() clean() and getRef(), what problems do they address?

Asynchronous tasks and executors.
submit() and Future
How are different kind of data handled? Generics/Templates <>

Lamport timestamps. What are they used for? Describe algorithm.
Why do we use them instead of physical clocks?
Can you use the Lamport timestamp for a total order? No, because there are simultaneous events that can have the same timestamp (they only respect a partial order constraint).
Can you modify it in order to add this feature? Yes. Just use the process ID in order to solve ambiguities in case you have the same timestamp.

Java templates for HTTP requests/responses. JSP: Java Server Pages.

Higher Order Functions. What are the tools of Erlang that allow you to work with these functions?
How can you define a custom map() function? Write down the code.

Servlet. What is their lifecycle?
Use one of them, two of them? When and how?

Actor Model: describe the model and how can it be implemented in a language you know (Erlang).
Let's use OTP for process communication and spwan() in order to start the computation on other nodes.
Behaviour change: how? How to maintain the state?

Snapshot algorithms. What are they? What problems do they need to solve? What algorithms did we see?
Talk about Chandy-Lamport. What assumptions do you need?
    - FIFO channels (to make consistent cuts)
    - Fully connected graph
    
Thread pooling. What do we need it for? Why does it give us advantages? What instruments does Java provide to use this techinque?

Erlang. How to implement filter() on a list. Write code.

EJB. How are they handled by an application server? What is their lifecycle?

Vector timestamp. What are they? What do we use them for? Give an example.

Erlang. Quick sort algorithm. Implement it, exploting recursion.

Amdhal's law. Speedup. What results do we achieve? Superscalar.

Web applications. Sessions. What is a session? What techinques can be used to track a session? Cookies.
Also: use of hidden fields, unique IDs in URLs.

Erlang recursion. How is it handled? Are there specific problems? How must the programmer behave?
Usage of recursive and iterative constructs.
Problem of the stack. Tail recursion. Give an example code.
Any drawbacks? Yes, you cannot use backtracing in the debugger.

Request/Reply protocols.

Web applications in Java. What is the typical structure of a web app?
Talk about MVC pattern. Servlet and JSP, how do they match with the MVC?
How can you organize the business logic? EJB.
Session bean, Message Bean (Stateful, Stateless, Singleton)
In case of data persistency on disk, what can the app server do? And the EJB?
Pooling on Factory objects, in order to limit the overhead of instantiating a new object for every database connection.

Erlang. Write a flattening function for lists.

Erlang processes. How to handle them? What operations can you do with them? Local and remote execution.
spawn, send (!) and receive
node@hostname notation. What is the cookie?

Distributed algorithms. Richart-Agarawalacomecazzosiscrive In what context is it used? Mutual exclusion.
Steps of the algorithm.

